---
layout: post
title: "DisplayLink and vgaswitcheroo."
author: fabiand
---



**DisplayLink:** Just something I wanted to share. The problem with
current 'modern' laptops can be, that they don't provide a VGA port,
which is often required to connect beamers (the reason why I needed one
of those adapters). One way to to solve this, is to use some
[DisplayLink](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DisplayLink) adapter, which
allows to connect display via USB.\
\

::: {.separator style="clear: both; text-align: center;"}
[![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/3/33/DisplayLink-Logo.png){width="160"}](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/3/33/DisplayLink-Logo.png)
:::

\
But it is hard to find *real* DisplayLink adapters, it took me two
random and one informed transaction to get a supported adapter:[LogiLink
USB to DVI/VGA/HDMI Multi-Display Adapter
(UA0077)](http://www.logilink.eu/showproduct/UA0077.htm).\

::: {.separator style="clear: both; text-align: center;"}
[![](http://www.logilink.eu/images/products/_500/UA0077.gif){width="200"}](http://www.logilink.eu/images/products/_500/UA0077.gif)
:::

\
This adapter has quite good support in Fedora after installing the
xorg-x11-driver-displaylink package.

    $ sudo yum install xorg-x11-driver-displaylink
    $ sudo modprobe sisusbvga

Use `dmesg` to find out about the assigned framebuffer-device (fb). Now
the driver is available and the appropriate kernel module loaded but you
still need to dump the following file into `/etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/`

    # /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/displaylink.conf
    Section "Device"
            Option       "fbdev"     "/dev/fb2"    # use the device given in dmesg
       Identifier   "DLCard"
      Driver       "displaylink"
    EndSection

\
**vgaswitcheroo:** Well, I didn't find out much more on the
vgaswitcheroo side. I didn't find a way to determin if a monitor is
connected to the discrete card, when this card is turned of (it seems
that on some setups the integrated card get's "infos" about monitors
connected to the discrete card, but not on mine). But I wont continue to
poll for a monitor on the discrete card, so I'll just provide some
trayicon (or how i's called in the shell slang), which enables the user
to switch between the cards.

::: {#footer}
[ September 29th, 2011 8:58pm ]{#timestamp} [vgaswitcheroo]{.tag}
[displaylink]{.tag} [fedora]{.tag} [multiseat]{.tag} [gswitcheroo]{.tag}
:::
