---
layout: post
title: "igor-0.4.0 for testing oVirt Node - for now ..."
author: fabiand
---


igor-0.4.0 for testing oVirt Node - for now \...
================================================

[![0-4-0](http://farm9.staticflickr.com/8048/8124665593_82dfc1f22a_z.jpg){width="400px"}](http://www.flickr.com/photos/antontwang/8124665593/ "0-4-0 von Twang Photography bei Flickr")

With the oVirt Node release around the corner I also gave igor some
attention and prepared a new release.

The new release (0.4.0) contains a couple of changes:

      igor-0.4.0
      - Event framework to signal job changes (using redis)
      - New client (igorc)
      - Use libvirt-only be default
      - Switch cfg file syntax to yaml
      - Reorganize files
      - Add igor-slave

There is a new client tool in town to control igor, it's igorc. It can
do everything igorclient.sh could do. But it's better to maintain and
shares code with igord. Igorc has a feature to [monitor the progress of
the current job in a
shell](http://dummdida.tumblr.com/post/51492048387/testing-ovirt-node-in-4min-video).
This required some kind of signaling mechanism. After trying a custom
solution I choose [redis](http://redis.io). It has a nice and - in
general but also in python - to use pubsub mechanism. This mechanism is
now used by igord to signal when a job changes it state. This also gives
me a reason to update the package once and again.

The now more common igord hooks are used to implement this feature. You
can even use a hook to, let's say publish results or job states on a
fedbus.

igorc can be found in it's own igor-client subpackage.

One mayjor change - especially relevant for developers - is the
libvirt-only change. Now you only need a working libvirt setup to test
oVirt Node. If you plan to do the tests with real hardware, you'll still
have to setup cobbler and friends.

In general yaml is now also used for configuration files. But while
looking at rust I noted one very charming feature of their testsuite:
They encode the expected outcome of a testcase in the path of the
testcase, take a [look
here](https://github.com/mozilla/rust/tree/master/src/test) to get the
idea. This brings me back to question of how igor can get better in
defining testsuites. Might a fs-structure-only approach be enough to
also keep metadata? Maybe.

The slave part of igor, you could also say testrunner, is now also part
of igor package (in the igor-slave subpackage). This package needs to be
installed in a distribution under test. I've got it somewhere on a sheet
of paper that I want to try running Fedora under igor. Now with this
subpackage in place it should be easier to do.

One major thing outstating is a decent tutorial and some excessive
testing of the package. That might come to 0.4.1.

Igor also has a new home now ...
[github](https://github.com/fabiand/igor). I'm a bit sad - because
gitorious was a reliable and old friend. But github evolved better and
allows a much better collaboration. Thanks gitorious.

::: {#footer}
[ July 19th, 2013 3:48pm ]{#timestamp} [ovirt]{.tag} [node]{.tag}
[igor]{.tag} [libvirt]{.tag} [fedora]{.tag} [github]{.tag}
[gitorious]{.tag}
:::
