---
layout: post
title: "Having fun with exporting automake variables - or how it was obviously a pyflakes bug (no, it wasn't) ... "
author: fabiand
---


Having fun with exporting automake variables - or how it was obviously a pyflakes bug (no, it wasn\'t) \...
===========================================================================================================

Each line of a Makefile target is executed in a sub-shell, this has pros
and cons, but at least the following side-effect can be observed:

    fun:
        export FOO="wunder bar"
        echo $$FOO

This doesn't echo "wunder bar" to the cmdline when you run make because
the *export* happens in a different shell then the *echo*.

You can anyhow set environment variables using the *export* keyword:

    export FOO="wunder bar"
    fun:
        echo $FOO

This now echos *"wunder bar"* to the cmdline when you run make.

So what is problematic with this? The quotes. The environment variable
*FOO* will contain the string *"wunder bar"* - including the quotes!
This happens because export is now the[automake
keyword](http://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/Variables_002fRecursion.html#Variables_002fRecursion),
and that means the whole part on the right of the equals sign (=) is the
value of the variable named on the left hand side (FOO). And in the
example above this includes the quotes.

What happened to me earlier on was that I tried to set an environment
variable (PYFLAKES\_BUILTINS) which got picked up by *pyflakes*. I used:

    export PYFLAKES_BUILTINS="_"
    fun:
        pyflakes file.py

Now, spot the problem.

Solution: pyflakes (correctly) didn't behave as expected (handle *\_* as
a built-in), because the value of the variable was "\_", instead of \_.

    $ export PYFLAKES_BUILTINS="_"
    $ pyflakes file.py

The above snippet on the other hand works oin the shell, because the
quotes (in the export line) are interpreted by the shell, and are nto
part of the PYFLAKES\_BUILTIN variable.

::: {#footer}
[ September 16th, 2013 10:45am ]{#timestamp} [automake]{.tag}
[fedora]{.tag} [pyflakes]{.tag} [python]{.tag} [node]{.tag}
:::
