---
layout: post
title: "Automation ain't easy; but it pays back¹ - Pitfalls in automating the build of images"
author: fabiand
---


Automation ain\'t easy; but it pays back¹ - Pitfalls in automating the build of images
======================================================================================

[![push the
button](https://farm7.staticflickr.com/6147/5978129712_541d6661c8_z.jpg){width="640"
height="443"}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/simonm1965/5978129712 "push the button by Simon Murphy, on Flickr")

More than two months ago I [wrote about the oVirt Engine Virtual
Appliance](http://dummdida.tumblr.com/post/91741656270/weekly-ovirt-engine-virtual-appliance-builds)
which is now beeing build for oVirt 3.5.

Back then the first initial builds happened and I thought I was done -
as in: Fine; the images are now build, nothing can happen.

Unstable
========

Well, it wasn't that easy - again ... The builds weren't as stable as
expected and I had to adress several issues.

Let's give some background: We are using
[Jenkins](http://jenkins.ovirt.org) within oVirt for continous
intgeration and other tasks. I'm also building [oVirt
Node](http://www.ovirt.org/Node), which is also some kind of image.

Compared to the Node image, the appliance image is different, because it
can be build using livemedia-creator. Node in contrast needs
livecd-tools.

The difference beteween livecd-creator (lmc) and livecd-tools is a
rather big one. livecd-tools is using a chroot to build the image, lmc
otoh is using a complete VM (through libvirt) to isolate the image
creation from the host operating system. This is good for several
reasons:

-   SELinux - If the SELinux policy between host and guest difffer to
    much, then obscur problems can appear
-   If the build fails, mount points must be cleared
-   If the build fails, loop devides must be cleared (!)

To name just a few.

livecd-tools main drawback is it's use of loop back devices, which ain't
bad per se, but it turns out that - still - situations can occur where
loop devices can not be removed again. I mean, they can not be removed
at all, without rebooting the system. On a CI system, this will slowly
eat up all the loop devices, until a builder is unable to build an image
because of this execssive use of loop devices. That is a big problem
when building images using livecd-tools.

Now, to address this I wanted to use lmc. lmc is not using loop devices,
but it's using libvirt. Which is actually quite nice. But it seems that
there are also some
[problems](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1103308) which
make the use of libvirt in jenkins environments hard.

Let me say that those kind of problems might be in general not to bad,
you set SELinux to permissive, and run lmc as root. But that is the
difference between your lcoal environemnt and a shared Jenkins instance:
You don't have the full controll over your environment. You can't always
tell ahead of time what exact

I'm actually a big fan of using existing code. Because often others have
already thought about and solved a problem. But in this case I went with
using qemu directly. This turned out to be very well suited for Jenkins,
because a qemu instance is independent and does need loop mounts (wohoo)
to create a disk image.

Qemu was in place, and was booting anaconda nicely. But it was slow and
failed.

It was slow, because the builder does not have a great bandwidth into
the internet. So to improve To address this, I setup a caching
mechanism, which is working fairly well, but could be further improved
by mirroring the release trees of the required distribution.

¹: In the best case

::: {#footer}
[ September 25th, 2014 9:05am ]{#timestamp} [fedora]{.tag} [ovirt]{.tag}
[node]{.tag} [appliance]{.tag} [livemedia-creator]{.tag}
[livecd-tools]{.tag} [jenkins]{.tag} [qemu]{.tag} [libvirt]{.tag}
:::
