---
layout: post
title: "Automatic testing of a Fedora Cloud image with gherkin, qemu, pexpect and travis"
author: fabiand
---



Automatic testing - in all it's glory - has been one of my problems for
some time now.

The result for the automated testing of the current Fedora Cloud image
is:
![image](https://travis-ci.org/fabiand/fedora-cloud-features.svg?branch=master "Build status")

A screencast can be found
[here](http://dummdida.tumblr.com/post/86584633715/screencast-of-a-behave-session-the-first).

tl;dr

Not to long ago I [wrote about using pexpect to interact with virtual
machines](http://dummdida.tumblr.com/post/82368744933/automatically-testing-vms-using-pexpect-and-qemu).
This time I extend the last experiment and add
[gherkin](http://pythonhosted.org/behave/gherkin.html)
(through[python-behave](http://pythonhosted.org/behave)) to describe the
features to be tested.

[![image](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/39/Gherkins.jpg "A gherkin")](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gherkin)

I like gherkin, because it enables non-programmers to write test cases,
to describe their needs, the features they want to so. Much has been
written about it elsewhere and there are nice recommendations of how
good features should be written.

A [feature to describe the basic
bootability](https://github.com/fabiand/fedora-cloud-features/blob/master/boot.feature)
of a cloud image could look like:

    Feature: Basic bootability
      Cover the basic boot process. Ensure that we see a bootloader
      and a login prompt is displayed.

      Background: Some virtual machine with Fedora
        Given a default VM
          and the latest Fedora cloud image
          and that the VM is turned on

      Scenario: A bootloader is expected right after boot
           When we wait for 30 seconds at most
           Then we expect the bootloader prompt to appear

      Scenario: The kernel and systemd is started
           When we wait for 60 seconds at most
           Then we expect the kernel to be loaded
            and systemd to be running

      Scenario: A login prompt is displayed
           When we wait for 480 seconds at most
           Then we expect a login prompt

(The feature is suboptimal written.)

How each of this lines is achieved is up to the programmer / the
implementation.

The implementation in this case is the same as I've previously written
about. qemu and pexpect ironed together.

As the implementation is quite standalone (only python and qemu are
required), it was just logical to run it on Travis CI.

[![image](http://docs.travis-ci.com/images/travisci-small.png "Travis CI Icon")](http://www.travis-ci.org)

The result is that it
[passes](https://travis-ci.org/fabiand/fedora-cloud-features/builds/25853392)
(after a bit of forth and back). Look at the history to see, that
failures are also catched.

The
[.travis.yml](https://github.com/fabiand/fedora-cloud-features/blob/master/.travis.yml)
file is surprisingly clean:

    language: python

    python:
      - "2.7"

    before_install:
     - "sudo apt-get update"
     - "sudo apt-get install qemu curl"
     - "pip install -r requirements.txt"

    script:
     - "curl -L -O http://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/fedora/linux/updates/20/Images/x86_64/Fedora-x86_64-20-20140407-sda.qcow2"
     - "behave"
     - "rm -vf *.qcow2"

All of this can be found [in this
repository](https://github.com/fabiand/fedora-cloud-features). Feel free
to test, fork and improve!

Things I like about this approach:

-   Separation of concern - Implementation is independent of
    specification
-   Works well for local setups and testing in the cloud
-   It's simple

::: {#footer}
[ May 23rd, 2014 11:02am ]{#timestamp} [fedora]{.tag} [cloud]{.tag}
[automation]{.tag} [pexpect]{.tag} [python]{.tag} [qemu]{.tag}
[virtexpect]{.tag}
:::
