---
layout: post
title: "Node: Atomic upgrades, image based delivery, and room for customization"
author: fabiand
---


Node: Atomic upgrades, image based delivery, and room for customization
=======================================================================

[![Freer Gallery
Paintings](https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4039/4191970931_7e48b8000a.jpg){width="500"
height="333"}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/mr_t_in_dc/4191970931 "Freer Gallery Paintings by Mr.TinDC, on Flickr")

[Yet another post (Jasper) on image based OS
deliveries](http://blog.mecheye.net/2014/11/why-package-managers-are-not-my-ideal-software-distribution-mechanism/).
Jasper is also utilizing ostree which become widely known with the
Fedora Atomic or [Project Atomic](http://projectatomic.io/) effort. And
there is also the idea from the [systemd
people](http://0pointer.net/blog/revisiting-how-we-put-together-linux-systems.html)
which got some attention.

It's not that image based OS delivery is new. oVirt Node is around for
some years and *is* an example of an image based OS with atomic
upgrades. Maintaining this small project gives us some experience, and
we also see the limitations of our current approach, this is the reason
why we are also investigating how to redesign Node, and keep the image
based delivery. There are similarities between Node's requirements and
the use cases addressed byostree and the systemd people, so we also keep
close eye on those projects. One difference we, especially to ostree is,
that Node is an appliance intended to be the OS of a bare-metal machine,
which needs to be somewhat customizable at runtime.

**OStree** is nice. Several filesystem trees exist in parallel on a
host. Upgrades happen by creating a new tree. The efficiency comes from
reducing redundancies between the different trees. The problem we
currently see with this approach, is that we can not really customize
the parts we need to modify: Adding 3rd party kernel modules and adding
custom monitoring tools. Sure, there is a POC for installing simple rpms
at runtime, and it is possible to create new trees on the server side.

**systemd-btrfs-composing** is a very interesting but young idea. I'm a
bit sceptical that it's tied to a single filesystemn, but let's see.
Functional it would provide us with all the features we need: Booting
into a real filesystem, which is completely writable. Beyond that -
which makes this idea unqiue IMO - is the strong focus on changing the
way how (especially) configuration is re-thought to make the separation
of stateless (site unspecific, like libraries) and statefull (site
specific, like configurations) possible. I'm thinking about the idea of
moving default configurations to some factory directory.

[**image**](http://github.com/fabiand/imgbased)
[**based**](http://dummdida.tumblr.com/tagged/imgbased) is the idea
we've come up with. It's basically a *specific LVM usage pattern*. It is
an old idea, but realized in a stricter way. Node will become a rootfs
(like the trees provided by ostree). Those root filesystems can be
pulled and are pushed into local logical volumes. The volumes are
read-only, and a writable thin volume is created atop the read-only
volume. This concept is very similar to the backingstore concept of the
qcow2 format. Anyhow, the writable layer is used to boot the host.

Updates are (partially) simple: A new root filesystem is pushed into a
new (read-only) logical volume, a writable layer is created a top, and a
new boot entry is added.

Compared to ostree, we don't boot into trees in a filesystem, we rather
boot into different filesystems. This has the benefit of beeing very
close to a regular operating system.

We are in progress of testing all our use cases with the **imgbased**
approach, but because the other projects advance as well, it's good to
revisit them now and then.

::: {#footer}
[ December 2nd, 2014 10:56pm ]{#timestamp} [ovirt]{.tag} [node]{.tag}
[fedora]{.tag} [ostree]{.tag} [systemd]{.tag} [btrfs]{.tag}
[imgbased]{.tag}
:::
