---
layout: post
title: "Geeksphone Revolution"
author: fabiand
---



Lately the display of my HTC Desire ONE C cbroke completely. It survived
about a year with heavy scratches. But finally the touch screen keyboard
wasn't useful anymore, because the cracks crossed to many keys
(especially T and F).

Long story short. A useable smartphone can be aquired for about 100,-.
The Geeksphone Revoltion was just repriced and cost 199,-. That was
acceptable, as that phone supports Firefox OS (or B2G) - wich I want to
try.

![GP
Revolution](http://www.geeksphone.com/wp-content/themes/gp/img/phone-rev.png)

The phone came with a preinstalled stock/clean Android 4.x which behaved
very smooth and nicely. There was nothing to complain. So I started and
tried to figure out how I could flash B2G onto the device.

Initially I thought that some kind of development tools were needed to
do this. But with some luck I came over some menu point, which allowed
me to install B2G with just a click.

It appeared as if B2G was installed side by side with Android, but as it
turned out, Android got replaced. Luckily I hadn't had any data on the
device yet.

B2G has a very nice initial dialog (setting up the language etc), but in
general it still feels a bit rough. But all in all it fit's my daily
usage quite well.

What I really miss is a better documentation from Geeksphone (on i.e how
to get B2g onto the device, and Android back on afterwards) and
nightlies for the Revolution (which are missing).

B2g itself has still some way to go. But I am curious where we are in a
year.

::: {#footer}
[ May 20th, 2014 9:50pm ]{#timestamp} [firefoxos]{.tag} [android]{.tag}
[geeksphone]{.tag} [revolution]{.tag} [fedora]{.tag}
:::
