---
layout: post
title: "Getting a writable filesystems on Node"
author: fabiand
---



The diagram illustrates how we plan to bring a writable root filesystem
to Node, without any limitations. No limitations, because the fs is
justa regular filesystem, nothing special about it, the special handling
is below, on the block layer, provided by LVM thin volumes (thanks to
dm-thin):

          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
          :               :             :   
          :         +--------------+--------------+
          :         | layer-1 (rw) | layer-2 (rw) |
          :         +--------------+--------------+
          :         | base-1 (ro)  | base-2 (ro)  |
    +------------+  +--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | bootloader |  | lvm vg                                  |   
    +------------+--+-----------------------------------------+
    | disk                                                    |   
    +---------------------------------------------------------+

Each image (called `base-N`) we publish will be stored as a read-only
(thin) logical volume in the volume group (`lvm vg`). For each base
`base-N` a writable layer named `layer-N` will be created atop of the
base. To boot into the writable layers, boot entries will be added to
the bootloader, pointing to all available (writable) layers. There is no
possibility to boot into the read-only bases.

**State** If modifying/customizing of a layer is interpreted as the
state of a base, then migrating the custom configuration between layers
(i.e. migrating the changes to from an old to a new layer), can be
called persisting the state of a base.

Apparently there are many ways how the state of a base can be persisted.
It has been discussed and will be discussed, yet it is not clear what
the *Königsweg* is.

And it's obvious that `base-N` is intended to be an ancestor of
`base-(N+1)`.

**Block layer** Hiding the sparseness in the block layer has the big
advantage that it is completely transparent to file based stuff, like
permissions and (especially) SELinux.

It currently has the drawback that deduplication is harder - or
impossible.

::: {#footer}
[ October 20th, 2014 2:14pm ]{#timestamp} [node]{.tag} [ovirt]{.tag}
[imgbase]{.tag} [imgbased]{.tag} [persistence]{.tag}
:::
