---
layout: post
title: "Taking a look at the rootfs footprint of a LiveCD and a disk (image)"
author: fabiand
---


Taking a look at the rootfs footprint of a LiveCD and a disk (image)
====================================================================

[![Archive: First Footprint on the Moon (NASA, Marshall,
07/69)](https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8316/7973820086_ab7a9a2b57.jpg){width="275"
height="248"}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/nasamarshall/7973820086/ "Archive: First Footprint on the Moon (NASA, Marshall, 07/69) von NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center bei Flickr")

Besides the details about Node's memory footprint, it was also
intersting to see how much space we gain form the rootfs by our
minimization efforts.

The idea is to take a recent oVirt Node image, and compare some stats of
it, to the stats of a regular image, build using the `@core` group.

The two points I investigated are:

-   How does the minimization affect the number of packages?
-   How does the minimization affect the space requirements?

The

-   first one was addressed by counting the number of installed packages
    (`rpm`)
-   the second one was addressed by
    -   Summing up the reported size of the installed packages (`rpm`)
    -   Determining the disk space in use (`df`)

Because [guestfish\'ing](http://libguestfs.org/) into a LiveCD is
tiresome, I created [this
script](https://gist.github.com/fabiand/48fa450d84591f7b4454) to gather
the stats for me. Additionally it's nice to have a tool by hand to
create reproducable results.

The results are - once again - interesting.

    $ bash img-stats.sh ovirt-node-iso-scratch.iso runtime-layout.img
    Image: ovirt-node-iso-scratch.iso
    ImageSize: 197.00 MB
    in_node
      NumPkgs:    449
      SizePkgs:   867.50 MB
      SizeRootfs: 564.97 MB

    Image: runtime-layout.img
    ImageSize: 1543.63 MB
    in_imgbased
      NumPkgs:    490
      SizePkgs:   1071.67 MB
      SizeRootfs: 1323.57 MB

    DiffNum: -41
    DiffSizePkgs: -204.17
    DiffSizeRootfs: -758.60

What do we see here?

-   We see that the plain rootfs has 41 additional packages installed.
    Or the other way round: 41 packages are blacklisted on the LiveCD.
-   The sum of reported rpm sizes is \~200 MB higher on the plain rootfs
    than on the livecd
-   The disk usage on the plain rootfs is \~760 MB higher than on the
    livecd

Especially the last two points indicate that the file based blacklisting
is actually responsible for freeing up so much space.

This is just a rough estimate. More time needs to be spend on
investigating the details of this differences.

::: {#footer}
[ June 17th, 2014 1:56pm ]{#timestamp} [fedora]{.tag} [node]{.tag}
[livecd]{.tag} [rootfs]{.tag} [minimization]{.tag} [libguestfs]{.tag}
:::
