---
layout: post
title: "Adding a cockpit to Node"
author: fabiand
---



For several years now the administrative interface of [oVirt
Node](http://www.ovirt.org/Node) is a TUI - a textual user interface -
displayed on the console of the host, the so called *setup TUI*. It does
a pretty good job, but it is custom, and duplicates much code which is
available in other projects. Besides that a lot of our bugs are related
to the TUI and small stuff like getting the tab-order correctly is hard
to solve.

For [oVirt](http://www.ovirt.org) 3.6 (or so) we plan to do some heavy
refactoring of oVirt Node, to be able to keep up with the pace of
oVirt's overall development, as well as beeing able to keep up with the
pace of the platform (Feodra, CentOS) development!

This refatoring includes looking around if other community supported
projects exist, which provide parts of the functionality we have in
Node.

The [cockpit project](http://cockpit-project.org/) is one those (young)
projects which provide a tool which has a big overlap with one of our
tools, to be precise: It is also a tool perform administrative tasks on
a host.

![A cockpit
page](http://cockpit-project.org/images/screenshot-storage.png)

As the Node team had some time between FOSDEM\'15 and devconf.cz, we sat
down and discussed if cockpit is viable way to go. After some discussion
we finally [agreed in one of our last
meetings](http://lists.ovirt.org/pipermail/devel/2015-February/009899.html)
to migrate to cockpit, and add plugins for the functionality which is
currently desired by us, but missing from cockpit.

We are now heavily looking into what the best approach is to migrate our
stuff. But it is going to be a fun ride, with a (hopefully) happy end.

If you want to see where this is going, follow our [feature
page](http://www.ovirt.org/Features/Node/Cockpit).

::: {#footer}
[ February 19th, 2015 11:27am ]{#timestamp} [ovirt]{.tag} [node]{.tag}
[cockpit]{.tag} [tui]{.tag} [snack]{.tag} [newt]{.tag} [urwid]{.tag}
:::
