---
layout: post
title: "Close to bare metal in containers, and about SPC"
author: fabiand
---



[![Cardiff
Docks](https://farm1.staticflickr.com/248/447467316_fa9ffdc736_m.jpg){width="240"
height="180"}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/ben_salter/447467316 "Cardiff Docks by Ben Salter, on Flickr")

Sometimes, when you mess with LVM, iSCSI and friends, you need device
access. This is actually not one of the things you will get when you
start with containers. Actually, containers are hiding those 'details'
by default.

But if you need this access, you can get it.

*Privileged containers* seem to be containers which are started (in the
dockerland) with `run --privileged`, docker will then not drop
privileges. To give that container even more powers, you can specify
what capabilities the process should get.
`run --privileged --cap-add=ALL` will then give you a fully privilged
container with all powers, a so called *super privileged container*.

That container is now capable of launching all sorts of software which
interacts with the kernel in several ways, i.e. [launching
systemd](http://dummdida.tumblr.com/post/117170605905/systemd-in-a-docker-container)
requires some privileges to work correctly.

But in this case you still do not get access to the host devices. You
know, those files in `/dev/`. To get access to the host devices, you can
eitehr specify them one by one when launching the container, using
`run --device=/dev/sda`. This has some limitations, like: The device
needs to be available when you launch the container. The second method
is to pass all of `/dev/` to the container using: `run -v /dev:/dev`.
Passing `/dev/` to an SPC container should give you close to what you
have when you run software on bare-metal.

Some things I still need to play with are `--pid=host`, `--ipc=host`,
and - some more ideas around - `--net=host`.

::: {#footer}
[ April 28th, 2015 4:57pm ]{#timestamp} [docker]{.tag} [spc]{.tag}
[lvm]{.tag} [iscsi]{.tag} [dev]{.tag} [devices]{.tag} [container]{.tag}
:::
