---
layout: post
title: "Power of <stroke>love</stroke> containers - by acknowledging and respecting their boundaries"
author: fabiand
---


Power of love containers - by acknowledging and respecting their boundaries
===========================================================================

So - It's about guarantees. In this post at least. Containers are so
useful - in some cases - because of a few reasons. One reason tho is
that containers are pretty much "independent" of the host and the host
operating system. And making them indepent of the host - or -
abstracting away to host solves a class of problems.

[![Warkworth
Castle](https://c1.staticflickr.com/3/2113/2246539681_7b9bc68e2f_z.jpg){width="640"
height="426"}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/draco2008/2246539681/in/photolist-4qw6YM-podYGR-dKL6x5-buQHJq-QTrnyq-cGi55S-2tdkTc-bMsV6D-nK7ZuJ-oUo2aZ-2GuZE3-fsZWpm-a5gbNk-awX3Pu-S5RqvH-afxiM8-RxqnvG-t5jJd-9ja4tw-S1kp87-Cs5vF-8qMzt6-8wgRtE-djkdwi-4Kw8iy-fd3wXy-a99my5-7QBGfj-a98Xnb-aGzdHp-q5w1ax-SgY2uX-dPyAgz-R4U3Dr-nPFFRQ-8BhCrL-8BhBxb-ay75sM-DYudE-4L7PUD-83fqpj-aob7sP-7byH7v-8JjyDY-dDbN2y-ACfwh-eyxc92-9C6jG7-dDbN8Q-nbjNvH "Warkworth Castle")

The author of an application does not need to take care that the OS and
it's devices come up correctly. Containers allow us to just assume that
they will. An author does not even need to care about the real devices.
An application needs a network? In containers you can work with that
assumption. In the past time and code lines was spent on just checking
that networking was availableDocker guarantees this. And even the NIC
name.

An obviously docker goes beyond NICs. They found a great set of
primitives and guarantees which they provide on any host to the
container. Well - It only works because the distributions moved a little
to provide all Kernel features which docker requires - but in the end it
effectively means that the docker runtime (and OCI) guarantee you the
same environment regardless of the host. And this simplifies things.
Things? Yes. It simplifies code, because you can work with assumptions,
it also simplifies updates, because you are isolated. And there are
probably many more benefits.

Thus to me the best way to benefit from containers is to respect them
and their boundaries. Boundaries in two ways actually: On the one hand
that the container can expect that the boundary is always the same, and
on the other hand that the container is not crossing the boundary (and
thus avoids touching anything outside of it's bnoundaries, like i.e. the
host).

For sure there are exceptions where containers need to cross the
boundary, i.e. in KubeVirt, where access to `/dev/kvm` is needed. But
each of those escapes can lead to potential other problems. Search path
and tool availability differences between container and the outer world,
authentication issues because of different UIDs/GIDs in an outside of
the container, security issues if stuff is copied outside of the
container into external places, and so on and so forth.

Why am I iterating over this? Well, even if there are ways in the
container world which allow us to break out, then we should still be
very careful with using them. We loose the benefits of portability and
isolation the more we open up the boundaries.

For [KubeVirt](http://kubevirt.io) - for example - we know that we need
to cross the boundaries in some cases, i.e. to access `/dev/kvm` - but
OTOH we try to not cross them, by not relying on software (i.e.
libvirtd) or other devices (like disks) on the host. We rather aim at
meeting these requirements in container or Kuebrnetes native ways
(containerized libvirtd and persistent volumes in this example).

::: {#footer}
[ February 27th, 2017 11:13am ]{#timestamp} [containers]{.tag}
[kubevirt]{.tag} [kubernetes]{.tag} [docker]{.tag} [oci]{.tag}
[libvirtd]{.tag} [fedora]{.tag}
:::
