---
layout: post
title: "Cheap and lazy releases"
author: fabiand
---


Cheap and lazy releases
=======================

Release early and release often.

That's fine if it's close to a noop. The Cockpit team also has great
atuomation in this area, but here a few words on how we do this in
KubeVirt.

Assumption: The git tree is our source and git tags map to logical
releases.

Kudos: To GitHub and Travis CI.

1.  Have a working CI in order toverify that a commit is good

You'll need to write test cases and have travis running them. I strongly
recommended to have a *great* coverage, it keeps your .. inbox clean.

2.  Tagging and release in order to mark a commit as a release

Here you want to either use plain annotated git tags, or even better
[git-evtag](https://github.com/cgwalters/git-evtag) which is signing the
whole tree.

3.  Building images and binaries Travis has everything you need to build
    images and binaries (although I wonder when buildah will land here).
    Besides [building images you can also push
    them](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/docker/) to a registry of your
    choice. All triggered by tags mentioned above.

The travis deployment feature is also pretty handy, as you can directly
create a [GitHub release and upload
artifacts](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/deployment/releases/).

4.  Announce

Do it manually. You can generate changelogs, but reading them ... is nto
nice for humans. Thus maybe a sentenc or two - but written by a real
human - might be good.

All steps combined should give you: CI on each commit, github releases
and pushed images for every tag you do.

All in all it's a lazy - or cheap - release.

::: {#footer}
[ April 26th, 2018 8:58pm ]{#timestamp} [kubevirt]{.tag} [travis]{.tag}
[github]{.tag} [release]{.tag} [fedora]{.tag}
:::
