Node goes anaconda
==================

After writing about [oVirt Node](http://www.ovirt.org/Node) [using
cockpit for
administration](http://dummdida.tumblr.com/post/111458709540/adding-a-cockpit-to-node),
there is more news.

The setup TUI we deprecated in favor of
[cockpit](http://cockpit-project.org) was only one part of our custom
TUI code.

The installer is the second component in Node using or own handcrafted
TUI. But, even more problematic is, that we also maintain our own
installer.

That can not be to hard, can it? Well, think of multipath, efi, secure
boot, and an iSCSI root, and for sure all possible combinations of those
items, then you get an idea how much fun and actually real work it can
be to maintain a custom installer.

Long story short, after some investigations of how we can improve our
own owninstaller by leveraging more of other installers, we came to the
conclusion that it makes more sense to settle with an existing
installer, rather than trying to keep and maintain our own.

![Anaconda](https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/10549274?v=3&s=200)

[anaconda](https://github.com/rhinstaller/anaconda) is Fedora's, as well
as CentOS's and RHEL's installer, and it has everything we need, so at
[last weeks team
meeting](http://lists.ovirt.org/pipermail/devel/2015-February/009899.html)
we also decide to settle with anaconda as our default installer.

EFI, Secure Boot, multipath, iSCSI all of this is already supported by
anaconda. But Node is image based (and we want to stick with *that*),
how can you use anaconda? Anaconda is typically used with packages, but
it can also install 'live-images' (squashfs or even real disk images),
and also ostrees.

Over all it is quite obvious that Node is aligning much more with
upstream projects than before. This will also lead to shift in how the
Node team works, initially we'll be working hard to upstream our
requests, to make sure that everything is in place to be able to ship a
Node which can serve as the stable ground for oVirt.

In additiona we take care to leverage cockpit's and anaconda's
"extension points" to add some Node specific bits.

We need to [add cockpit
plugins](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1190758) to deliver
the functionality we already offer today.

We want to [add an anaconda
plugin](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1195177) to support
Engine registration during the installation.

So there is some stuff on the horizon, and it is already close enough to
see the contures.

::: {#footer}
[ February 23rd, 2015 11:38am ]{#timestamp} [anaconda]{.tag}
[ovirt]{.tag} [node]{.tag} [fedora]{.tag} [centos]{.tag} [rhel]{.tag}
[cockpit]{.tag} [plugin]{.tag}
:::
