Real persistence with oVirt Node
================================

[![Lego
speeder](https://c1.staticflickr.com/1/128/373339245_b2a9be68aa.jpg){width="500"
height="400"}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/ellasdad/373339245 "Lego speeder")

Node is conservative about keeping changes in files. And it is
impossible to modify the root filesystem of a running Node in such a
way, that changes to it would survive a reboot.

That's true. But you can modify the intermediate layers to persist the
changes made to the rootfs. Huh? That sounds weird. It is.

The background is roughly: The Node iso is going through some loop
mounts and through device-mapper snapshot. Somewhere the dm snapshot
requires a backing file for the changes made to the block device it
maps.
[Normally](https://github.com/haraldh/dracut/blob/master/modules.d/90dmsquash-live/dmsquash-live-root.sh#L111)
this temporary device is a memory (thorugh a tmpfs), but with some nifty
[dracut](https://github.com/haraldh/dracut/blob/master/modules.d/90dmsquash-live/dmsquash-live-root.sh#L24)
magic this backing device for the device-mapper snapshot can be any
device. And if you choose a device which keeps changes (like any regular
harddisk) then your changes to the rootfs will survive - not in the
rootfs - but in the intermediate layers.

It's a bit complex to explain but easy to use and but useful.

I'll illustrate the flow using qemu:

    # Create a file for the harddisk where you want to install Node:
    qemu-img create -f qcow2 hda.qcow2 20G

    # Create a backing file for the persistency
    qemu-img create -f raw hdb.raw 500M

    # Create a file in the persistence image which holds the actual changes
    mkfs.ext4 hdb.raw
    mkdir loop
    mount -o loop hdb.raw loop
    dd if=/dev/zero bs=1M count=300 of=loop/persist-hda.img
    umount -f loop

    # Run qemu
    qemu-system-x86_64 -m 2048 -hda hda.qcow2 -hdb hdb.raw -cdrom node.iso

Now install Node normally.

Whenever you want to **make a change** or **run the system with the
change**, you need to add the following to your grub commandline:

    rd.live.overlay=/dev/sdb:/persist-hda.img
    # overlay= on el6

or in general:

    rd.live.overlay=<device>:<absolute path relative to the root of device>

That also means that you can have different files inside your
persistence device for different persisted things. Maybe you know what I
mean. I.e.:

-   /persist-vdsm-update.img
-   /persist-node-update.img
-   /persist-qemu-update.img

However, one drawback is: This doesnot work for upgrades. After you
upgraded Node, the persistence image can not be used anymore.

Also note that the rootfs is by default mounted `ro` - you either need
to remove the `ro` keyword from the kernel cmdline or remount the root
fs writable. Take also care that you don't try to modify a path which is
on a tmpfs.

::: {#footer}
[ May 7th, 2015 5:59pm ]{#timestamp} [node]{.tag} [dracut]{.tag}
[fedora]{.tag} [persistence]{.tag}
:::
