Monolithic OS delivery is popular
=================================

[![ian\_uw\_board\_monolith](https://farm1.staticflickr.com/191/488149912_360d1967af_o.jpg){width="400"
height="275"}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/idallen/488149912 "ian_uw_board_monolith by Ian! D. Allen, on Flickr")

I actually had this post in my drafts for some while. Now it's more of a
reminder than a full post.

[We](http://www.ovirt.org/Node) do it,
[Atomic](http://www.projectatomic.io/) does it, the systemd-cabal does
[it](http://0pointer.net/blog/revisiting-how-we-put-together-linux-systems.html),
[OpenWRT](http://www.openwrt.org) also does it - Delivering the OS or
parts of it's - in bigger chunks. We and OpenWrt ship images, atomic
trees, and the systemd cabal is also thinking about images.

The projects got in common that due to the similar concepts of delivery,
we also share a common set of problems. One problem we all share is, how
the state of a system instance - how the system specific configuration -
is persisted/kept, between the (image/tree) based updates.

This can seen pragramatically, like it's the defautl way with rpm: The
old configuration is not overwritten. But: rpm also has postlets (%post,
and others) to apply some logic to files when an rpm is updated. This
mechanism is used to i.e. convert files if they need some special
handling between version upgrades (db schema migration, binary file
conversion, ...). So in the package based scenario, necessary changes to
configuration files are done during the package update. The same thing
needs to happen with images.

And so all of us, who do a "monolithic os delivery" are facing the same
issue: How do we "migrate" the configuration files between image updates
- or: How do we persist the state of the system between upgrades.

Besides the technical differences in the solutions to this problem,
there is one aspect that is unique^[1](#fn:andatomic){.footnote-ref}^ to
systemd: They try to solve conceptual problems.

OpenWRT's luci might be an interestnig approach to persistence; maybe
it's more about re-configuration than persistence.

::: {.footnotes role="doc-endnotes"}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  ::: {#fn:andatomic}
    For this specific example - persisting the configuration - the
    atomic people are also quite involved as far as I can
    tell. [↩︎](#fnref:andatomic){.footnote-backref}
    :::
:::

::: {#footer}
[ December 2nd, 2014 11:01pm ]{#timestamp} [ovirt]{.tag} [node]{.tag}
[reminder]{.tag} [imgbased]{.tag} [imgbase]{.tag}
:::
