Updates on the oVirt Appliances (installation of engine and node)
=================================================================

Lately I've updated the oVirt Engine appliance image to be based on
CentOS 7, to get away from breakage which came from the fast moving
forward Fedora (previously the appliance was based on Fedora). Besides
of that I've simplified the kickstart and Tolik added support for
cloud-init, which will hopefully help to pave the way for a better
integration into hosted-engine.

Another thing I've been working was to simplify the installation of the
appliance in use cases outside of hosted-engine. Why? Because the Engine
appliance image is a good way to start testing and using Engine. It is
an installed OS (CentOS 7) with all the necessary repos set up, and
engine installed. Ready to run
`engine-setup --offline --config-append=ovirt-engine-answers` to get
engine set up.

So why not simplify the consumption of this nice image for everybody?

[This small
job](http://jenkins.ovirt.org/job/fabiand_boo_build_testing/) builds an
[ISO](http://jenkins.ovirt.org/job/fabiand_boo_build_testing/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/ovirt-ipxe.iso)
with a boot menu, which can be used to install the [Engine
appliance](http://jenkins.ovirt.org/job/ovirt-appliance_engine-3.5_master_merged/)
directly into a VM or onto a real host. During the installation you can
set a root password which you can then use after installation to log in.
Please note that all the relevant files (installer + os image) are
pulled from Jenkins, so the time to install heavily depends on your
internet connection. For me it takes \~20min to get from a fresh VM
until Engine is running.

When you run the ISO you might also see the option to install Node. It's
not the classical Node, it's rather a [Node
appliance](http://jenkins.ovirt.org/job/ovirt-appliance_node-3.5_master_merged/),
based on CentOS 7, containing vdsm, glusterfs and cockpit (all from the
upstream sources with the latest bits). The appliance was simple to
create is mainly a way to get the latest upstream bit's in a clean
environment, to test our Node team cockpit move. For me it took also
roughly \~20min to get this appliance up and running. You can
mirror/cache the images locally if you want to speed up this process.

Theoretically that appliance can be used as a host for Engine, but in my
initial trials I failed to attach the node to Engine. But we can
probably fix that in future.

This is more research and work in progress. But I am surely interested
to make this mature in future. One important step is to get the anaconda
installer images from CentOS 7.1. The CentOS 7.0 installer images are
[very outdated](http://bugs.centos.org/view.php?id=8239) and I can not
use them. Temporarily I'm using the Fedora anaconda images, but that
[has other
drawbacks](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1145130).

As a last note I can tell that at least the node appliance has some
testing (installation), but should gain more.

So take all of this with care, but feel free to experiment with the boot
iso and roll out your own Engine instances. Help to fix the node
appliance and feedback in general is welcome.

::: {#footer}
[ March 19th, 2015 12:52pm ]{#timestamp} [ovirt]{.tag} [appliance]{.tag}
[node]{.tag} [engine]{.tag} [anaconda]{.tag} [fedora]{.tag}
[centos]{.tag}
:::
