imgbased - or keeping the nature of Node
========================================

<div>

[![](https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2245/2143446673_58cafe5bc1_d.jpg)](https://www.flickr.com/photos/ferranp/2143446673/sizes/m/in/photolist-4gskqN-4gpJ28-9YD1xM-dQWzzz-4gpHqP/)

</div>

The special thing about Node is that it is image based. And we would
like to keep it this way.

An image - or the rootfs in the image - is a set of packages which can
be tested as a whole and delivered as a whole. So we can be sure that
the package combination on the host where Node is running is the same
combination of packages we tested.

[imgbased](https://github.com/fabiand/imgbased/) is now an idea where we
get a similar functionality to Node's read-only rootfs but one layer
down, using LVM.

Previously we operated on files, allowing change sby using bind-mounts
to a writable partition.

By using LVM we just provide a write-able volume atop the read-only
volume carrying the rootfs. At boot time you then decide into which
(write-able) volume you would like to boot. In ascii art:

    + VG
    |
    +--+ Config (LV)
    |
    +--+ Base-0 (LV, ro)
       |\
       | \
       |  + Base-0.1 (LV, rw)
       |  |
       |  + Base-0.2 (LV, rw)
       |
       |
       + Base-1 (LV, ro)
       |\
       | \
       |  + Base-1.1 (LV, rw)
       :

This makes much stuff easier. Yum can work. No need for bind mounts,
selinux has no hassles, and the persistence idea also works between
"bases".

Having the original rootfs around makes it easy to create a delta
between the original rootfs and the write-able volume.

Upgrades work by adding a new volume with the contents of a new rootfs,
which then get's a new "layer" by adding the write-able volume atop.
Partially changes can be persisted by copying files (in a whitelist
fashion) between the current and new write-able layer.

With Node we also keep the last image around, to provide a fallback in
case that the new image has some kind of regression.

This is also possible with imgbased. You can basically keep as many
bases (and their write-able layers) around and discard them at some
point later on.

The drawback so far is, that you've got a slightly higher space
requirement at runtime, because we don't store the "squashed" rootfs
(\~250MB), but the sparse rootfs (\~800MB). But maybe we can mitigate
this a bit my optimizing our minimizer, or maybe it's even a viable way
to go, as the deployment size (the size of the ISO) does not change.

There are still unsolved issues

-   Getting anaconda to really do the installation
-   Verify that all parts work as imagined
-   Make the user aware that not all changes are persisted between
    upgrades

What I like most about this solution is, is that it is so - upstream. It
only use mature available technologies.

LVM thin volumes, ext4 with the discard option (this will free space
again as soon as you delete a file) and the BootLoaderSpec.

Well, we will need to go with real grub later on, because the BLS has no
way to define the default boot entry, which is needed to always boot
into the latest layer.

In general this approach also works for regular hosts. And if you are
brave you can even look at the sources and setup your host in a similar
fashion :)

*For the interested reader - some more background.*

Our current implementation is using bind mounts to make the roots
partially write-able - well, we are actually bind mounting write-able
places to targets in the rootfs - which is technically more correct. But
this approach has limitations:

-   It doesn't work in the early boot process e.g. with /etc/fstab or
    with systemd
-   We maintain our own installer to handle the image based installation
-   We need to maintain custom SELinux rules because we bind-mount many
    files on tmpfs or somewhere else
-   It works well for individual files, but is becoming messy for many
    files.

The first three items are actually causing the most pain. Lately I
started to look at the second point. The initial idea was to use
python-livet for storage handling. I continued to surf and thought that
we could reuse even larger parts of anaconda ... I surfed on the waves
of trying to find ways were we could build our Node on the shoulders of
others, so we can concentrate on other part sof Node - making it solid.

Once I landed there I tried to rethink the whoel Node, but based on
available concepts which are already there in the Fedora land, which we
can reuse - and don't have to reinvent.

::: {#footer}
[ April 11th, 2014 6:07pm ]{#timestamp} [fedora]{.tag} [imgbased]{.tag}
[node]{.tag}
:::
