Net neutrality - Or avoiding responsibility in complex organizations
====================================================================

[![Funkbüro](https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4026/4422602259_265e859829.jpg){width="500"
height="333"}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/biederbeck/4422602259/ "Funkbüro von Herr von Draussen bei Flickr")

It is frustrating. For over a month now. Actually since the 6th of May
2014, I'm trying to get a DSL line from the biggest (wired) carrier in
Germany.

On the 6th I got a confirmation that the line will be available on the
21st. Nice. That contract got canceled. The confirmed date of delivery
became a fake. After several calls (7+) to the hotline, and several (4?)
visits in the close by shop, finally ... nothing happened. No one was
responsible, no one could come up with solutions. It was always some
other group within the company which was causing the trouble. You were
redirected randomly.

They offered a wireless solution until the line was available. I still
had to pay for the hardware, the offer was just about the "SIM card".

About a week after the confirmed date I reached out to a lawyer to get
an idea of what can be done to get the carrier to do what it actually
wrote down in the contract. After naming the carriers, the lawyer
stepped back and suggested to just be happy if the line will be setup at
all. He agreed that it is a valid contract, but he also said that the
carrier would probably just sit it out. Basically not react and just
cancel the contract as soon as possible.

A couple of days later I received another confirmation that th eline
would now be available on June 12th. Today. But actually nothing
happened, ... yada yada and so one.

It's frustrating, if even a lawyer tells you, that you can just obey to
what the carrier dictates.

::: {#footer}
[ June 12th, 2014 9:40pm ]{#timestamp}
:::
