Persistence
===========

[![moss01](https://farm1.staticflickr.com/27/54713863_8017abe3ca.jpg){width="500"
height="375"}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/blakeemrys/54713863 "moss01 by Blake Emrys, on Flickr")

Persistence is a somewhat relevant topic for
Node.^[1](#fn:imagepersistence){.footnote-ref}^

When I say persistence I'm talking about keeping the state of files
between images. And the two aspects I want to speak about is *how* files
are persisted and *what* files are persisted.

Node is delivered as an image (now and in
[future](http://dummdida.tumblr.com/post/97207385480/node-is-moving)).
An update (a new rootfs) is also delivered as an image. Migrating
changes between the original image, and the updated image is what I call
persistence.

Now
===

In the current Node persistence is implemented by keeping changed files
on a writable partition, and bind mounting them at boot time into the
target. The persistence works with a white-list, so a user (or package)
needs to name all files which need to be persisted. A drawback of this
approach is, that the bind-mounts are not available in the early boto
stages. The problem can be illustrated if you think about persisting a
modified `/etc/fstab` or new (3rd party) kernel modules. Additionally
someone needs to determine the files which define the state of a
component.

Then
====

For the future we are thinking about an approach where the whole root
filesystem is writable^[2](#fn:readonlyroot){.footnote-ref}^.

In addition to it beeing writable, we will be also booting into that
filesystem. This makes it possible to

-   Modify any file
-   (which implies) Modify files which are relevant for the early boot
    process

The key difference to the old approach is, that we can now modify the
filesystem we use to boot.

How
===

Persistence then works by *migrating* a file from the previous to the
next image. The migration can be a simple copy or similar to a 3-way
merge. Maybe even both. Or more? Independent of what strategy is
choosen, he key fact remains: Persisting works by *migrating* the old
state, to the new image.

Now we know *how* we persist files, but it's still the question *what*
files we need to be persist.

What
====

As said above, currently this works by whitelisting files. This has the
drawback that the user (or package/consumer) needs to be aware that
it\#s running on Node, and that is cumbersome to maintain, and not
obvious to a user, why files need to be persisted.

I anticipate something like "transparent" persistence for the next-gen
Node. It should be transparent to the user/consumer that persistence is
necessary, so Node should decide what files need to be persisted which
not.

Because Node will keep the original image, and a layer with the changed
filesystem tree around, we can easily determine the changed files.

Greedy
------

A clear option is to migrate all of the changed files to a new (updated)
image. This approach is greedy: Each file that has been touched is
copied from one image to the next. This will result in many changes
which are moved from one image to another. We need something smarter.
And there is more than one option.

File
----

We could use file-level white-listing like we do today.

    $ perists /etc/passwd

It's very selective, but needs a lot of maintenance.

Package
-------

Besides doing it on a file level, we can also do it on the package
level. Two approaches: We can either name the package (and all of it's
files) to be persisted, or we can determine the package of a file, when
the user tries to persist a file.

    $ persist pkg vdsm

    $ persist file /etc/passwd
    Do you want to perists all changes to files of the package 'core-utils' instead of the single file '/etc/passwd'?
    Yes/No/Maybe [Maybe]?

Blacklist
---------

Or we could just come up with a blacklist of paths which should not be
persisted. Except when explicitly requested.

These are a couple of options that come to my mind, I'm not yet sure how
the final solution will look like. But I see use cases for all this
ways. And the good is, the current infrastructure we plan, will support
all of these approaches.

::: {.footnotes role="doc-endnotes"}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  ::: {#fn:imagepersistence}
    it's not only Node that needs persistence. It affects all
    [projects](http://www.projectatomic.io/) which need to take care to
    keep the *customized state* of a system. If the state is not kept,
    then we are talking about
    *stateless*. [↩︎](#fnref:imagepersistence){.footnote-backref}
    :::

2.  ::: {#fn:readonlyroot}
    Currently the root filesystem is read-only, and only parts are made
    writable using tmpfs and bind-mounts to writable
    partitions [↩︎](#fnref:readonlyroot){.footnote-backref}
    :::
:::

::: {#footer}
[ September 11th, 2014 11:33am ]{#timestamp} [node]{.tag}
[persistence]{.tag} [fedora]{.tag} [atomic]{.tag}
:::
